Let me test this. Testing.
OK, we can continue.
Consequently, you felt that the quality of the
students and of the instructors is very high. Did
you go to a certain class? for a week and then go to
another class for a week? Or did you go daily? What
was their routine?
The best of my memory, and I still think they follow
the same system, they had us broken up in groups.
And we'd have what's called seminars, which
study, for instance, for maybe the first month,
Well, the whole outfit first, the entire class,
and I think I remember about 300 people, maybe,
that worked on it. It must have been at least 300.
The first part of the, it was supposed to last a
year, by the way. Yeah, and it lasted seven months.
Right. And why? The Korean War broke out. Yeah. So
it was a short course. And we didn't get, I was the
one class that we didn't get to finish. So they had
to break it off short. But needless to say, by that
time, I was glad to get out of the Air Force. I had it
under my belt and on my record anyhow, so I was glad
to go. But they had you in seminars for a while, and
then you go to a . Especially like economics,
strategy,
some history, military history. Then as we got
towards the end of the course, each seminar became
more specific and a lot of times about, let's say,
shorter. Like we'd study fighter tactics for
tactical air warfare. Just ground air support,
that type of thing. And we'd have a monitor. And
we'd break the classes down into panels then.
Maybe 15, 20 officers. And the instructors, or if
you will, the monitors, what do we call them? I
guess monitors. Officer types, you know, a couple
of us, colonel, lieutenant colonel, lieutenant.
They'd monitor the panels and moderators. And
we'd actually sit around the table and discuss and
argue amongst ourselves. The main ones that I can
remember and old Charlie Bond became famous for
was when we got on international stuff and the
Russians. Because, you see, I've been over in
Russia a year. I had very definite opinions and
didn't hold back in expressing what I felt very
strong about. And I was complimentary towards the
Russians in a lot of ways about the capabilities of
what I saw. And I became known as Red or Pink
Charlie. But I was respected. We graded each
other. Students graded each other at times. And I
was very proud of what my classmates thought of me.
Why'd they call you Pink Charlie? Because you had a
couple of good things to say about the Soviet
Union? Yeah, and of course this was a period of
McCarthyism and anti-communist fear. And I
didn't also, at that time, I think I told you
before, I was still fairly well convinced that the
war had been inevitable between us. And I always
opened my comments, and I still say it. You've
heard me say it to you. I've been, I've dealt with
practically every national portion of the world,
been on practically every continent in the world,
except Korea, and I've met people all over the
world. Far East, Europe, India, your name is
Africa, South America. I've never met a man on the
street I'm talking man of the street type I'm
talking about, civilian versus civilian. And
fighter pilot versus fighter pilot,
professionally speaking. I've never met a race of
people more like the Americans than the Russians.
Now, that's the people of the street I'm talking
about. Now, war erupts in June of 1941 by August of
1951. Did I say 41? I thought 51. By August of 1951,
You're no longer a student. Were you eager to get to
that war? Yes, but I didn't go to that war. I know you
didn't, but were you eager? Oh, yeah. Did you want
to become a combat fighter pilot? As a matter of
fact, I was picked at one time and knew I was going to
be assigned to command one of the two tactical
ground control groups that was in the Iron Tire
Force. There were two of them. This is a ground
control environment, if you will, including
radars and all the communication equipment for
controlling tactical air warfare and giving
close air support to the Army. We had two of them in
the United States, in the United States Air Force.
And one of them obviously had to go to Korea because
we were in the war. And I was picked and tapped, and I
was going to go command that unit. How did you feel
about that? And I was tickled to death. Of course,
I... I would prefer it to have been in one of the
fighter outfits. And I admit I had a little qualms
about, gee, what's this going to do to my future,
and so forth and so on. But at least I knew I was going
to be in the war. And then the next thing I knew, when
the assignments came out, I was ordered to go to
Northeast Air Command to do air defense planning
for the northern area of uh well the northern area
of the western hemisphere namely tuli the huge
base of tuli and continue the implementation of
the plans that i had originally laid on for
continuing the air defense pine tree system of
radars up the coast of uh of canada in other words i
was picked to implement the plan that I had laid
down as a planner the previous year. Is that why
they sent you to Newfoundland? I was more
qualified, much more qualified to do it because I
had drawn up the plans for it. How could I argue
that? True, but what were your feelings when you
found out that you weren't going to Korea, you were
going to Newfoundland?
I'd make the feelings, but at the same time, I knew
this time I was going to have a family with me. That
helped offset the feelings. And I rapidly gave up
any hard feelings about losing the opportunity to
go to war because I wasn't completely sold on
commanding this ground environment control
outfit. I'd have been on the ground too much, and it
didn't particularly grab me. So I was glad. And it
gave me more confidence. It was a challenging job
in the treated zones of the polar area of the world,
and something I had not really been experienced
in. Here was something else I was going to get some
experience in. And you were there from August 1951
to May of 1954, and you eventually became the
commander of the 64th Air Division. See, that's
what the plan was laid out. You were a full colonel
at this time. Tell me about your command. What was
under your command? First, I was the
director of air defense from 1951 to 1952. There
again, to finish the planning, detailed
planning. if you will, take field trips and
supervise the installation of radar sites and
all, which is extremely interesting, flying up
and down Labrador Coast in amphibious type
airplanes. Then going up to the frigid north with
Thule Air Base and planning the, now that was a new
planning completely, down the planning for
the... And you were working right with the
Canadians. Well, in
Greenland, I had to be working with Denmark. Being
there again was international planning. And I,
again, was doing international planning with
another nation. And really what we had to do was get
their approval, that's all I had to do. It was more
of a political and diplomatic thing. But this was
the engineering feats and installing equipment
on the ice cap on the periphery of Tule Air Force
Base for our defense program. That's exactly what
it is, Tule. That flag right there. It's north of
the Arctic Circle. Oh, yeah. And there's the North
Pole. These are weather sites. Floating ice on
this one. It's on the north. It's on the northern,
western edge of Greenland. It's like it's pretty
close. Really north of Greenland. Everything's
north of there.
the North Pole. I have been within 50 miles of the
North Pole. Key three of weather stations on a
floating ice. It may still be up there as far as I
know. But I'm probably manned by civilians
now. What were the problems there? Were they
mostly technical? Mostly logistical. In frigid
conditions, building
For instance, a huge hangar that housed a B-52 on a
tundra that was frozen correctly
all the year, and then when it would melt, it would
melt so far down on the ground, it would melt too far
down and ruin the foundation of the building.
The engineering feats that were accomplished up
there were just something out of this world. What
were some of them? But the cost. Well, for
instance, the barracks and operations building
and maintenance building all had to be built above
the ground, let's say, primarily on six-by-six
type logs to give about three feet clearance under
the floor of the building and the ground so that the
heat from the building and the floor would not melt
the ground underneath it and then ruin the
foundation of the building. And also let the
flowing snow go past the building, underneath it,
or above it, or beside of it, and not stack up and use
this and practically cover it up. And actually
cover it up. I've seen 20, 40-foot buildings
completely covered up with snow along the
Labrador coast. All the radars had to have radons
on them to protect them from wind as high as 140
knots. Well, they went in 140 knots, but we lost
several over Labrador, California. And it took
the radar with them. Did you lose any men? No. As a
matter of fact, we, it was all, well, the Canadians
helped us plan all this stuff. And of course, by the
time we got to the plans for, you know, complete all
those plans, plan for the radar sites up in
northern Greenland. It's still frigid north, so
it was applicable then, except on the ice cap, how
to construct the basic buildings and things on the
ice cap. And that's where we took some special
engineering studies. The Corps of Engineers did
all of this. But boy, there was some expert
consultants, as a matter of fact, from other
countries, brought in from the Norway and Sweden
and Iceland, construction companies that were
familiar with the North, would come over. What
we'd do, for instance, put the radar on the ice cap
north of what we call number one radar site. We had
two radars on the ice cap about 15, 20 miles north
and east of the base proper. dug out a big trench,
huge trench, into the ice cap proper, then sunk
about an 18-foot diameter conduit type, typical
culvert you've seen, sunk that in the ice cap, and
then covered it over, and then built with inside
that iron pipe, if you will, everything we want to
build, and then just stuck a hole up to it with a
radar antenna sticking above the ice cap with a
radar moment. That's the way that was. every inch
of the water for the main site. Would you lose any of
those? No. It would melt? No. It would melt. The way
they built that idea, it couldn't melt, but it was
looted. The main radar site, what's called a
direction center south of the base, was really on a
base proper, and it was just off the edge of the ice
cap, but up on what we call a P-mount, a high peak. We
had to build a road up to it, and we had to haul water
up to it, and we'd haul water up to it during the
summertime where we'd fill up a huge storage tank
inside of a building which you had to keep heated to
keep from freezing in the wintertime. And of
course we had to haul fuel up there. It was
completely a different logistical concept.
Very, very interesting. Now you were the
commander up there in the 64th Air Division, and
how large was that? How many people did you have
under your command?
Well, we had a fighter squadron at Goose Air Base, a
fighter squadron at Harmon Air Force Base, and we
had a little detachment of three aircraft up at
Thule.
That was the fighters, and radar sites we had about
One, two, three, four, five, six, about ten radar
sites up the Canadian coast and on Newfoundland
proper and then on Greenland around Thule. I
forget, I must have had at least
I must have had two or three thousand people. Three
or four thousand. Three or four thousand.
Scattered very thin. But now, of course, that
doesn't include the huge bases that gave me
support. Directly under my command. This is your
first command? First large command, yes. First
command at division level. I've had squadrons. Oh
yeah, but I mean first command at division level.
This is quite a boost for your career. Oh yeah, and I
liked, as a matter of fact, I remember, well, I
eventually, before I took that, from the Air
Defense section I had under deputy for operations
in the act. I eventually became the deputy for
operations under General Myers when they changed
commanders. Then from the deputy for operations,
I went over and took the 64th Air Division. I
changed from a staff job in operations to a full
command job. So there again, I did the planning. I
was very fortunate. I did the planning. I
implemented the plans. Then I took over command of
the units for me. moved them into the installation
that commanded them. So it was a complete cycle,
which I enjoyed very much. Besides the technical
aspects, did you have any other challenges?
I can't remember any unusual ones, except maybe at
Thule. We had some more outcome at the time. At
Thule, you have 180 days of so-called 182 days, if
you will, of sunlight, 182 days of night.
Generally speaking, for complete darkness,
total darkness 24 hours a day, I think I remember
it's about 81 days during the wintertime when the
sun never gets above the horizon. And of course you
can say the opposite thing during the middle of the
summer when the sun just rotates right around the
top of you, just stays above your head. In the
wintertime, and I remember I used to feel this when
I'd go up on a staff visit to the field. You know, my
unit's up in Tulane State for about three or four
days. You know, get up, it's dark. Go to bed, it's
dark. Get up, it's dark. Go to bed, it's dark. Dark
all the time. And psychologically, I could feel
the effect. Now, imagine a guy being assigned a
term for six months. The usual assignment was six
months? Yeah, we had to shorten it to six months
because it was for our reasons. in the wintertime
particularly, and we'd give them leave, bring
them back down, you know. We had hospital cases in
the hospital at St. John Newfoundland
headquarters right there at NEAC, where they were
hospital cases of psychological shock and so
forth from the total darkness season up until
then. No kidding. But these were usually the
younger, less experienced people. And how did you
combat that? How did you combat these morale wars?
Bringing them out of the area and then getting
them, you know, mental therapy there at the
hospital. Generally, we would never send those
types back. And would you give, well, what about
your regular people that were up there for six
months and the officers were up there too for six
months only? The what? Officers and men? Oh, sure.
Okay. The commanders went to the base? And the...
Well, the fighter crews eventually had up there
for three aircraft, alert crews, you know,
standing alert. We'd bring them back during that
81 days. We had tried to arrange, you know, we had
the Air Transport Command was particular. Well,
you know, we had to. The only way to get supplies up
there was by air. It was landlocked, you know, ice.
You couldn't get ships up there. We planned the
massive shipments in the summertime, all laid on
by the military...
Well, the ocean, the Navy. And if you didn't get
that up there during that shipping season, then
you knew you were going to have to carry it up by air
later on. And you know, you can't carry some of the
heavy cargo. You just can't afford to carry it all
in the air. So we had a lot of air transportation in
the wintertime during that darkness period. And
we would bring the people back down south. the
Pepperell Air Force Base. Some of them we even sent
down maybe to back to the States for a week or two,
vacation and leave,
you know. It didn't take up much time. A lot of the
people, the majority I'd say, didn't bother. It's
only a few of the cases. All of us talked about it and
knew it, but there were more mature people, I
think, Did you have movies for them,
entertainment? Oh, yeah. Gymnasium. Beautiful
gymnasium you ever saw. Even way up there. Four
basketball courts on the floor. Oh, yeah. Movies.
Indoor tennis. Indoor swimming pools. How did you
ever maintain a swimming pool up there? Well, it's
built above the ground and inside where you...
It's heated. It's heated. You know, you keep your
potatoes in and heat them. You don't let them get
outside and frozen for the mess. Everything, you
keep things heated. How cold was it during the
winter? The coldest I ever was was BW-8, an air base
that was on the western side of Greenland versus
BW-1, the extreme southern tip of Greenland. That
was a route up to the base. But I remember the
coldest Today I think I remember it was BWA and I
think it was 48 degrees below zero. We had to put the
airplane in the hangar immediately upon landing
and close the hangar doors because of freezing up
the hydraulic system and keep the airplane
warm.
There's a lot of funny stories that go on that I
could tell you about, but they're unprintable
about. For instance, the boys that go to the
outdoor latrines.
When it gets below 40 degrees, operations cease.
Operations cease. I mean below 40 degrees below
zero.
We had a hardy soul, as a side story, called
Glowtarts Charlie. He was building a weather
station over here on the eastern coast of
Northeastern extreme tip of Greenland.
We dropped a tractor to him, an air portable
tractor out of the back end of a C119.
I think in the open season, shipping season, he
came up off the eastern coast of Greenland and he
had a, he started out from a weather shack which was
a Danish weather station in the southern area, but
he, we wanted this weather station further up
north and he was going to start out from there. The
reason we call him Bloat Tarts Charlie is that the
only way he could get his tractor started was
diesel. He had to use Bloat Tarts to get the
manifold system and he just had fuel lines and all
to get the tractor started. And he wouldn't go any
place without a Bloat Tart.
Did you like having your first divisional
command? Yeah, I liked it very much. Did you enjoy
the command part of it, the administration? I
loved it.
They had good people under me and it was basically a
National Guard outfit that they had deployed up
from the state of New York. No kidding. And in fact,
I took it over as one of the few National Guard units
that was taken over by the Air Force and inducted
and sent overseas, if you will, as a unit. Usually
they broke them up and filled regular units with
them. At first, I had a few morale problems. They
objected to an outsider coming in and taking over
their unit. They forgot that they were in the Air
Force. They still thought it was a nice guard unit
from the ER. But it didn't take long to overcome
that. How did you overcome it? Talking to them. I
never did really have any problems with the
command. I enjoyed it. I like to handle people.
Okay. Let's go to your next question. your next
assignment from June 54th to October 56th. Okay.
To Colorado. Yeah, Colorado. Okay, Colorado.
Well, here again is Conrad. Con-ed. Yeah. Air
Defense Command. Yeah. Well, here again, and here
you can see what was a logical pattern that
sometimes you don't see in the armed forces. Here
was a logical pattern of a man calling it career,
air defense. It was logical that I would leave that
part of the North American continent where I had
implemented plans and supervised the
construction of air defense units, both fighters
and ground control equipment. then go back to the
very headquarters of what was to be the
headquarters of the entire North American air
defense system, which that was a part of. The 64th
Air Division was a part of it. And continue in the
planning and operations for coordination of the
entire nationwide, continent-wide air defense
system. So I went back, I went to Colorado and was
assigned to headquarters in their defense
system. Now, Continental Air Defense System
consisted of, it was a joint command. It consisted
of the United States Army, the United States Air
Force Air Defense Command, and We even got the Navy
included with about 13 people and a Navy admiral
trying to incorporate the United States Navy into
this system from the standpoint of air defense and
to be more specific on the secret extensions of
early warning ships at sea, maybe 150 to 200 miles
out to sea. And even the Navy early warning
aircraft airborne radars off the sea approaches
to the, both through the Atlantic and Pacific
approaches to the United States. In other words,
practically 270 degrees of protection for the
northeast and west, and leaving really the only
way bombers could come in the United States was to
come across Mexico. And still, you know, this took
a lot of planning, joint-wise. And ultimately, of
course, to bring in the RCJF and their joint
command of the Royal Canadian Army, or 90 units,
anti-aircraft missile, as a combined command,
namely NORAD, North American Air Defense System,
and some people called it North American Air
Defense Command, but NORAD, North American
Air Defense. If I remember correctly, my first job
there was,
I think it was in plans again. Operation.
Operation plans. DCSC ops, yes. Oh, that's right,
yes. That's right, yes. I was made assistant DCSO
under General Berkowitz. Mm-hmm. And exactly
what was your function there? What was your duty
there? I was the assistant. What does DCS stand
for? Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations. Oh,
okay, so you were the deputy chief for operations,
okay. You'll notice throughout my career I was
either operations, which really is a key staff man
for conducting, directing the operations of a
unit, or I was a commander. I can't recall ever
having a primary job as personnel or material in
any of my military service. I was very smart.
But that's why I did the assistance for
operations. In other words, whenever General
Berkley was gone, I was DCSO of the command. We had
two hats, Air Defense Command and Continental Air
Defense Command, the Joint Command. For
instance, our boss, the commander, 1st General
Kidlaw, he was the commander of the Air Defense
Command and reported to the Chief of Staff of the
Air Force. With his joint head on, he was the Joint
Commander of the Continental Air Defense Command
and reported to the Joint Chief of Staff.
Eventually, when NORAD came in, he was the
Combined Commander and was Commander of the North
American Air Defense System and reported not only
to the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States,
but also, to a certain extent, to what was
tantamount to the Joint Chiefs of Staff of Canada.
One didn't know right from the other.
See, General Chisdall left, must have been around
58, let me see my, must have been around 58 or 50.
Chitlow was the first commander.
Had to be in the late, late 50s. No, it was early.
Yeah, late 50s. I'm not sure about here, but the
late 50s. I'm not sure about here. Now, what were
your challenges here? What were my challenges?
Yeah.
Just getting the job done. It was a massive white
spread. Oh, and incidentally, the plan would
ultimately break in Alaska. See, the Alaskan Air
Command as a part of the complete North American .
And they had to be integrated in as an extension.
That was planning. And we eventually called them
a, if you will, a direction center for Northwest or
Alaskan with the Alaskan Air Defense. And what
kind of air defense did you put in Canada? Similar
to the air defense in the United States. I mean in
Alaska. Similar to that in the United States, the
radars and fighters.
Why did you wait until after Canada, after you did
this with Canada? We didn't wait, I just forgot to
tell you about it. Oh, okay. We visualized it
initially. Okay, so this is being done back in the
1940s. Well, planning in the 40s and actually
implementing in the 50s. When I took over the 25th
Air Division in Tacoma, McCord Air Force Base,
northwestern part of the United States, I had
liaison lines to the Vancouver area across the
border. Actually, I commanded operationally.
the Royal Canadian Air Force jet fighters at
Vancouver and four radar sites in southwestern
Canada. And I had direct communications with the
air defense headquarters in Alaska because, see,
I was more adjacent to them. I had to have early
warning pass with me. I remember scrambling
aircraft from, I'm talking too much, I remember
scramming aircraft from my base in Payne Air Force
Base just north of Seattle and intercepting a SAC
bomber 250
miles north of the Canadian border. Why? Catching
them that far out. Why? Was this a maneuver? Oh, no.
It was an exercise. Oh, it was an exercise. And boy,
I loved that. As a matter of fact, I was proud of it. I
had the long, the old F-89 type, what was called a
wagon wheel type, long-range interceptors.
Incidentally, the first one had the atomic air
defense weapon on it, air defense missile. It was
called GD, G-D-N-I. What year was that? That was
in...
That was when I was still at Dorian Headquarters in
56, 55.
We had, we took the air defense genie missile and
had it mounted on, we had nuclear air-to-air
missile active air defense in the United States in
56, 57. Nuclear air-to-air? Still have it. I
didn't realize that. That must be an awful small
warhead. It
is. Well, that'd do some destruction. Shooting a
nuclear missile at another airplane. Why would
you even need it? Why would it be necessary?
Positive. Well, close misses sometimes with a
regular missile may not get them. And this was big
enough to get two or three. Also, you know, the
blinding flash that blinded the remaining crew
that were in formation.
We're convinced the rest of it doesn't sink. What
about the range on this? Oh, it got way out in front
of us. That was one of the designs. Well, you break
off two. We had to have a design special maneuver.
And actually, we tried out at... out in the Luke Air
Force Base out in the desert with, of course, a
regular missile with no warhead in it to actually
practice the maneuver and determine how best to do
it to be sure that the pilot could get away from the
missile in time not to be blown up with it. And, of
course, the base maneuver turned immediately and
banked away and down. pick up the fade and get away,
and with it back to it, we still had visual blinders
that we'd pull down the cockpit, and also on a
pilot's visor that he would take the caution to
keep from being blinded by the flash. Of course, he
took the flash, what little was, right at the
bottom of the airplane, so it turned out a bit. It
was feasible. About what size of... bomb would be
in one of these missiles, about how many megatons?
Oh, it's very small, a few kilotons. Yeah, I don't
mean megatons. Kilotons.
But that's the size of the bomb that we dropped on
the machine? No, smaller than that. This is what
you call a tactical type nuke, a tactical nuke,
if you will.
Have we ever, to your knowledge, have we ever fired
one of these missiles and exploded the warhead on a
drone or anything? Oh, yeah, in lab tests over the
moving ground out in Indian Springs where they
test all the missiles. We fired one from an
airplane. and shot down another drone, or shot
down a drone, or another? I didn't do a drone. I
mean, you know. I don't remember. Oh, well, it was,
there was no doubt about that we could do that. It
was just a matter of firing it, it'd explode, and
the pilot could break away from it. This had been
done. Tested, actually. Did it destroy the
target? There was no target for it to destroy. It
was just fired up in space. Oh. We didn't worry
about, you know, getting close enough to destroy
the target. And what was the impact on the pilot?
None. And as a matter of fact, during that test,
three of our staff officers who made your good tank
contacts, who were very instrumental in
following this program and pushing it from its
very initial state to its final completion over a
period of two or three years, they were so
dedicated to it that they volunteered to stand on
the ground below where that thing was going to be
busted that I think it's, I forget how high it was,
15, 20,000 feet. And they did, they were on the
ground below. And of course they had to cause it
with eyeglasses and all that. The main thing is
blindness. It definitely felt the explosion. Do
you remember what year this was? All I know it was
around the mid-50s. It was while I was still at .
Now, they were doing a lot of atomic experiments in
the mid-1950s and the early 1950s, above ground
experiments that we continue to tell of the
mid-1960s when we signed a non-proliferation
treaty. And recently, of course, there have been
some
army men, not officers necessarily, but men who
have charged the United States government with
using them as guinea pigs and standing them up in
front of atomic blasts. I even saw this on 60
Minutes. 60 Minutes, remember that program on 60
Minutes? In which a number of troops were... Yeah,
I didn't see it on 60 Minutes, but I know what you're
talking about. They actually had some... Well,
they said that maybe they got some radiation and
then they had a higher rate of cancer. What was your
opinion on that one? Dismissive of your mind. I
actually met a friend when I went to work for TI,
Texas
Institute. I met one of my bosses, Nick Davis, an
engineer. He's now a vice president of TI. He, at
that time, was a Marine Corps buck private. Well,
he was a private. And he was one time in a test in the
trenches with his buddies, the Marine Corps boys
in the ground, in one of those tests for the purpose
of, you know, seeing what effects it would have on
them. Of course, they were far away, safe enough.
He remembers it and didn't bother him. And he
certainly hadn't been suing the governor for any
radiation. Okay. Now let's go back to your
assignment here. Your assignment changed from
CONAD to ADC. Is that the Air Defense Command? What
year was it? This is 1956, October of 1956.
Oh, yes, I can explain that. Now, that's when this
is... October 56 to September 57. Now, that's in
1956 is the day that CONAD was organized as a
separate definite joint command, eventually
with the idea of making it NORAD. So we had to
separate ADCL. And we brought in an actual
specifically assigned staff with just joint hats
on, part of Army, part of Air Force. Mm-hmm. And I
wasn't part of NORAD. I was just strictly the Air
Force component. So they just changed, really, on
paper, my position as part of the Air Defense
Command, which was really the Air Force component
of CONAD. Oh, OK. It's more or less a paper. OK, so
you were basically doing the same assignment,
though, because you were the deputy chief of
staff. I didn't change my desk. Oh, OK. It's paper.
OK, so you stayed the same. Basic job from June 1954
to September 1957. That's right, exactly. In
effect, I had two jobs, you might say. Did you like
that job? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. It was very
interesting. And again, I was in the mainstream of
everything. And incidentally, it was during that
time that, no, no, forget what I said. Well, I was
wondering about, you know, during the mid-1950s,
throughout the internment, 1950s, the Strategic
Air Command was popularized and almost
glamorized. There were a number of movies about
this. You are more correct in your latter
statement. Glamorized, okay. And I was wondering
what you people who weren't associated with the
Strategic Air Command felt about that command.
That's a good question.
I don't know if you've been given this question by
the Defense Department, but it does make a
difference, and it's a good question. This was
also a very key part of our planning, the
communications from what was to be the hole in the
mountain. And until that was put in the mountain,
in our control center right at the Air Defense
Command Base headquarters at the Air Force Base
right in the middle of Colorado Springs City
itself, as we're at a control center,
communication direct from us to the SAC command
center. Because they were the first. In the
mountain. No, they were up at Omaha. Yeah, okay.
Their headquarters there. Okay, but they were
building NORAD in the mountain. Oh yeah, yeah. In
Colorado Springs, right up in the mountain, up in
Getsam Mountain. But essentially Colorado
Springs. Okay. That was the ultimate control
center. We didn't want to stay exposed above the
ground. SAC got very below the ground also now,
deep in the ground of Omaha. But we had to
definitely see. They were the first ones we wanted
to warn. We were more interested in warning them
before we were the population, quite frankly. I
can say that because we wanted them to get off the
ground before the bombers hit. Oh yeah, as a matter
of fact, and we had very close coordination with
them. I personally have been in many planning
conferences with Slack people, and particularly
the communications and the procedures and
techniques, the way we would pass information to
one another and warn, you know, and acknowledge
the main thing, to be sure that what was passed to
them was authorized information, and that they
would act on it. This type of coordination. How
were the relations? Sometimes it got sticky. I
don't mind saying, sometimes it got sticky. Why?
SAC was a powerful organization. SAC was a
powerful organization. And sometimes there was
feelings between the two commanders.
What kind of feelings? Hard. Why?
Well, what would you call it?
It would be hard to call it professional jealousy.
Well, it wouldn't be hard to call it that either.
Both of us had our responsibilities, and both were
very dominant commanders. Terrific, I admired
both of them. One being Kurt LeMay, and one being
General Parker, my boss.
Both of them were terrific, and I had no disrespect
to either one of them. You put two iron-willed men
together, you're going to have some conflict.
Both of them had a job to do, and they wouldn't take
anything off each other. And both of them did their
job, and we got the coordination done well. Did
General Partridge complain about LeMay to you?
No.
And how do you...
They did have their word. It was difficult to plan
this. And
usually the two commanders gave their
instructions and the staff carried it out. I think
our biggest problem in ADC, NORAD and CONAD, in
getting things done and accepted by fact was with
the staff people. Certain individuals in the
staff undergone that. I don't remember ever
seeing General LeMay and General Partridge
sitting down and having a word with one another. I
never saw that. As a matter of fact, General LeMay
had visited our headquarters. He did? Yeah. And we
briefed him. And I don't remember any... Of
course, you knew him from the old days. Yep. And did
he still remember you? Yep. When he walked in, he
looked over and said, Hi, Charlie. With a cigar out
of his mouth. How'd you get along with him? Fine. I
never ain't told anybody. As a matter of fact,
since I retired, he knew I was working with Texas
Air Force. I'd seen him at Air Force conventions
and all, the Air Force Association meetings, and
his wife. And we'd speak to each other and enjoy
talking to each other. We'd call him the old time.
And he's still the same guy. I think he's got a
muscle problem in his face. It's hard for him
really to laugh. He kind of chuckles. And it's hard
to detect a smile. You have to know him to know that
he's really laughing.
So there was professional jealousy.